In old Spark streaming,
state management was quite inefficient,
so it was not fit for stateful processing.
This was because of two major limitations in its design.
For every micro-batch, the state was persisted along with the checkpoint metadata,
like offsets or progress of streaming.
This step of persistent was done at the end of
every micro-batch process when there was no change in the state.
The snapshot of each state was persisted
unnecessarily and then was saved to the store in a file system,
instead of the snapshot that only contained changes in the state.
This means saving state-to-store was tightly coupled.
This persistent of state management also cause
overhead of processing delay as well as waste in resources.
These can cause limitations on scalability along with serious performance issues.
Apache Spark introduced new SQL-based streaming,
which is called structured streaming.
This concept was introduced in Spark version 2.2.0 in July 2017.
Currently, we're on version 2.4.4.
Structured streaming has taken a fundamental shift in approach to managing state.
It has introduced major changes to address the issues of older Spark streaming.
The state management is now decoupled from
metadata checkpointing and is not part of Spark jobs and tasks anymore.
It is asynchronous to RDD execution now,
and it supports incremental state persistent as well.